

           Release notes for Mu2e Offline software, v1_1_2

1) October 28, 2011 kutschke
   Chris Green ported the code to build against art v1_0_1 and he changed
   setup.sh to choose this version of art. This code will not build against earlier
   versions of art.  At the same time we also upgraded the compiler to gcc 4_6_1;
   the compiler is shipped in artexternals. The full art tool chain is built with
   gcc 4_6_1.

   A critical, but temporary, change is that the only version of G4 now available
   in artexternals is built -O0 and with additional symbols for profiling.  Previous
   versions were built with optimization.  The result is that the code runs about 5 times
   more slowly.

   In the near future, an optimized version of G4, built with gcc 4_6_1 will be made
   available in artexternals.  When that becomes available, we will provide a way to
   select either the optimized or non-optimzed builds of G4.

   The only architecture/OS combination we support for this art release is
   64 bit SLF5 ( ie mu2egpvm02 and the grid worker nodes ).  We do not
   anticipate supporting SLF4 or 32 bit machines.  The Fermilab owned machines with
   the non-supported OS/architecture combinations will either soon be upgraded or
   soon be decomissioned.

   The changes that Chris made fall into 4 groups, 3 of which I mentioned in an
   earlier email.

   1) Some of the art include files have been moved from one directory to another.
      So some #include statements need to be updated.

   2) The art module base classes, previously included the Event, Run, SubRun, EventId,
      and Handle  headers.  The module base classes now only forward declare these
      classes.   Therefore any code that used to get these headers as tag-alongs
      from the module base classes will need to include the headers explicitly.

   3) There may be a few issues similar to 2) arising from forward declarations in
      other headers.

   4) When you instantiate an art::Ptr that points into another data product that
      is created in the same module as the Ptr in question, you need to use
      a special syntax.  This syntax has changed.  The only code that uses this
      is called within G4_module; this includes the sensitive detector codes.
      The HitMaker codes have not changed.  To see an example of what needs to
      be changed,

      cvs diff -r 1.34 -r 1.35 Mu2eG4/src/StrawSD.cc
      cvs diff -r 1.25 -r 1.26 Mu2eG4/src/G4_module.cc

      Probably the only code that will need this upgrade, and which Chris was not able
      to do himself, is the code for the UCI extinction monitor.
